rust a memory safe compiled programming
language that delivers highlevel
Simplicity with low-level performance
it's a popular choice for Building
Systems where performance is absolutely
critical like game engines databases or
operating systems and is an excellent
choice when targeting web assembly it
started as a side project of gr on
in 2007 who named it after the rust
fungus it was sponsored by Mozilla in
2009 and has been ranked the most Lov
programming language every year since
2016 with its fans being known as
restation traditionally highle languages
provide a garbage collector to Nerf your
control over memory management while
lower level languages provide functions
like free and allocate to shoot yourself
in the foot rust takes a different
approach it has no garbage collector but
achieves memory safety with a concept
known as ownership and borrowing by
default every variable in Rust is
immutable this allows values to be used
in the stack memory which has minimal
performance overhead however mutable
values or objects with an unknown size
at compile time are stored in the keep
memory every value in a rust program is
assigned to a single variable known as
its owner when that variable goes out of
scope the memory allocated to it is
dropped automatically in some cases
though you may want to pass a reference
to a different part of the program
borrowing allows you to access a
reference in memory without taking
ownership of it there are a ton of rules
to go along with the system that the r
borrow Checker will validate at compile
time these rules keep your code safe
while providing absolute control over
performance rust also has a package
manager called cargo where each
individual package is a crate to get
started install rest then run cargo new
from the command line in the main. RS
file you'll find a main function which
is where the program will start
executing declare a variable with let
followed by its name and type the value
can't be changed or reassigned by
default so add mut to make it mutable
the name of the variable is the owner a
reference to its location and memory can
be Borrowed by other parts of the
program by prefixing it with an Amper
sand then use a macro like print line to
log the value to the standard output
rust also comes with a standard library
that contains modules to handle IO the
file system concurrency among many other
things now compile your code to an
executable with the rust compiler you
just built a memory safe executable that
can handle the most performance
intensive system requirements this has
been rust in 100 seconds hit the like
button and subscribe if you want to see
more short videos like this and leave a
comment if you want to see a full R
tutorial thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next one